.Dd 2/6/13 
.Dt olm_open_file 3
.Os
.Sh NAME 
.Nm olm_open_file
.Nd open an OLM data file
.Sh LIBRARY
Outlook for Mac message extraction library (libolmec).
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libolmec.h
.Ft olm_file_t
.Fn *olm_open_file "const char *filename" "int opts" "int *error_code"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn olm_open_file
function will open the OLM data file given in
.Fa filename
and prepare it for subsequent query and extraction operations. 

The
.Fa opts
argument provides additional processing options to apply when opening the file and when performing subsequent operations upon it. The following values are supported:

.Bl -tag -width "OLM_OPT_IGNORE_ERRORS" -compact
.It Pa OLM_OPT_IGNORE_ERRORS
Ignore errors and attempt to continue regardless. Fatal or unrecoverable errors will still cause the call to fail.
.El  

The
.Fa error_code
argument will point to an integer that will contain any error information on exit from the call.
.Bf -symbolic
This argument cannot be NULL.
.Ef
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion the
.Fn olm_open_file
function will return an
.Ft olm_file_t
file pointer. Otherwise, NULL is returned and the variable pointed to by the
.Fa error_code
argument will contain an value to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The following error values can be returned by any
.Bf -symbolic
libolmec
.Ef
function:

.Bl -tag -width "OLM_ERROR_ATTACHMENT_NOT_FOUND" -compact
.It Pa OLM_ERROR_SUCCESS
No error occurred, the operation completed successfully.
.It Pa OLM_ERROR_INVALID_PARAMETER
An invalid or out of range parameter, for example a NULL pointer was passed to a function.
.It Pa OLM_ERROR_NOT_OLM_FILE
The given file was not a valid Outlook for Mac (OLM) data file.
.It Pa OLM_ERROR_FILE_IO_ERROR
An I/O error occurred during a read, seek or write operation on the file.
.It Pa OLM_ERROR_FILE_CORRUPTED
Unexpected or missing data was encountered while parsing the file's metadata, suggestive that it is corrupted, incomplete or damaged.
.It Pa OLM_ERROR_NO_MEMORY
The function failed to allocate enough memory to perform the requested operation.
.It Pa OLM_ERROR_INVALID_FILE_HANDLE
The 
.Ft olm_file_t
pointer passed to the function was not valid.
.It Pa OLM_ERROR_MESSAGE_CORRUPTED
Either unexpected or missing data was encountered while trying to extract the message from the file or the message data itself failed the CRC check.
.It Pa OLM_ERROR_ATTACHMENT_CORRUPTED
Either unexpected or missing data was encountered while trying to extract an attachment from a message in the file or the attachment data itself failed the CRC check.
.It Pa OLM_ERROR_ATTACHMENT_NOT_FOUND
The 
.Ft olm_attachment_t
pointer provided did not match an attachment in the OLM data file represented by the given
.Ft olm_file_t
pointer.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr olm_close_file 3
.Sh BUGS
None
.Sh AUTHORS
Chris Morrison